DOM : Document Object Model - Actual DOM that gets rendered in the browser.
Virtual DOM : (React) Lightweight copy of the actual DOM, stores the virtual UI.
CSSOM: CSS object model
Render Tree : Combines DOM + CSSOM.
Paint and footing : Actual painting of the pixels on the screen.
client side rendering : Server sends blank html, then browser renders it.
Server side rendering : Server sends full html, browser displays it immediately.
Static site generation : HTML is generated at build time.

react uses client side rendering by default 


lazy loading (client side rendering): loading components only when they are needed. 
          optimizes the load time of the application. reduces bundle size 
zomato: follows polling. (polls every 30 seconds) 
    web socket: real time communication between server and cliento or frontend and backend.
    used in whatsapp, uber and other apps that need real time updates.
framework: collection of libraries and tools that help you build an application. 
        provides structure and guidelines for building an application. 
library: collection of reusable code that can be used in an application. 
        does not provide structure or guidelines. you can use it as you wish.

optimized image performance : using webp format instead of jpeg or png. 
                                using proper size images for proper devices. 
reconcilation : process of updating the DOM with the new data.

API: application programming interface
a comminication between frontend and backend.

types of api: 
GET Request: To fetch the data from the server. 
POST Request: To send the data to the server. koi bhi nayi database pe karni ho ya database me save karni ho toh POST request use hoga
    never changes the schema
PUT Request: To update the data in the server. update karni ho ya edit karni ho. for modification
    i.e the schema changes in this request
DELETE Request: To delete the data from the server. delete karni ho ya remove karni ho
PATCH request: only changes a small patch of data not whole data like PUT request. the whole schema does not changes

Status Code: 
backend se frontend jo info aati hai wo 1 series   1xx
2 series: success - 2xx
3 series: backend se frontend pe redirection - 3xx
4 series: frontend se backend pe error or other request error - 4xx jitne bhi client side se error aate hai 
5 series: server side error - 5xx jitne bhi server side se error aate hai

types of 2 series
1. 200 : jab request success hoti hai  
2. 201 : jab bhi koi naya resource banta  hai and success aata hai

3 series 
300 : redirection ke lie ki wrong path pe ho
301 : permanent move ho to a url

4 series (imp)
400 : jab user invalid ho
401 : jab access not given i.e unothorised login kare ho 
403 : jab access denied ho 
404 : jab resource not found ho

5 series 
500 : internal server error 
502 : bad gateway : server se load shift nhi ho paya ya database se req wapis nahi mili 
503 : service unavailable

end points: 